                                                          OPEN SYSTEMS INTERCONNECTION MODEL
                                                          
                         INTRODUCTION TO NETWORK DEVICES 1
OSI model was developed as a way to help disparate computing systems communicate with each other.
It is created in a layered approach to help secure networking environment.
Security can be placed at various layers of the OSI Model to create a layered security arrangement that will vastly improve the security of an overall network.
                                                         OSI REFERENCE MODEL
                                                         7.Application
                                                         6.Presentation
                                                         5.Session
                                                         4.Transport
                                                         3.Network
                                                         2.Data Link
                                                         1.Physical                                                        
                                                         
                         BASIC NETWORK DEVICES
Switch 
It utilizes an application-specific intergrated circuit(ASIC) chip
It is considered a layer 2 OSI device
ASIC Chip has specific programming that allows the switch to learn when a device is on the network and which port it is connected to via device's layer 2 MAC Address.                         
Managed switches allow for security to be placed on individual switch ports, creating more secure networking environment.
SWitch will only communicate with local network devices.


Wireless Access Point(WAP)
It is a specific type of network bridge that connects wireless network segments with wired network segments.
It is a layer 2 OSI Device.
The common type of WAP Bridges are: 802.11 wireless network segment with 802.3 Ethernet network segment.
All WAPs are capable of utilizing encryption to help ensure a secure networking environment.
WAP will only communicate with Local network devices. 


MultiLayer Switch(MLS)
It provides normal Layer2 network switching services and Layer3 or higher OSI model services.
It implements security at layer2 and higher of OSI model.
Common MLS: Layer3 switch- it utilizes an ASIC chip for switching and the chip is also programmed to handle routing functions.
It can communicate with non-local network devices and also pass data.   


Router
It is common for connecting different networks together utilizing OSI model's Layer3 logical network information.
It uses software programming for decision making as compared to the switch's use for the ASIC chip.
Firewalls and Access Control Lists(ACLs) are commonly placed on routers to help secure networks.
 
 
Firewall
It can be placed on routers or hosts(meaning software based) or can be its own device(network appliance).
It functions at multilayers of the OSI model: Layer 2,3,4 and 7
It blocks packets from entering or leaving the network.
        Via Stateless inspection: firewall will examine every packet against a set of rules.if a packet matches a rule, the rule is enforced and a specified action is taken
        Via Stateful Inspection: the firewall will examine the state of the connection between networks, specifically, when a connection is made from an internal network to an external network. The firewall will not examine any packets returning from an external connection.  


Load Balancer 
It is also called a content switch or content filter.
It can be implemented to increase the security of the network by limiting or filtering the content that is allowed 
It is a network appliance that is used to load balance between multiple hosts that contain the same data_ spreading out the workload for greater efficiency.
it is commonly used to distribute the requests to a server farm among various servers helping to ensure that no single server gets overloaded.


Proxy Server
It is an appliance that requests resources on behalf of client machines.
It is often used to retrieve resources from outside untrusted network on bealf of he requesting client.
It hides and protects the requesting client.
It can also be utilized to filter allowed content 
It can increase network performance by caching commonly requested web pages.                               
